# Sorting_Visualizer
In the present work we tried to develop a Sorting Visualizer using the technologies like HTML, CSS and JavaScript. Sorting Visualizer will be displaying the working mechanism of various sorting algorithms like, Bubble Sort, Selection Sort, Insertion Sort, Quick Sort, Heap Sort and Merge Sort. The main objective of developing this Visualizer is to make a learner comfortable in learning these techniques quickly and easily. We know the sorting algorithms are the most widely used algorithms in many applications including Discrete event simulation, Operating Systems, real time systems and many other as well. In the general case the efficiency of an application depends on the efficiency of sorting algorithm used. The only limitation of the Sorting Visualizer is that we should have graphic cards in the general purpose computer. Students who wants to learn Sorting Algorithms in the beginning stage it is somewhat difficult to the understanding of operations being performed on the Sorting Algorithms.

In this project is mainly designed in such a way that any person can easily understand the operations that are being performed on the Sorting Algorithms with clearcut representation. Visualization can motivate the student to learn and understand any algorithm in an easier way. This application is run with different set of data for various data types and works well. The average running time of these algorithms have been taken and results are included. It may helps the students to identify the best Sorting algorithm by themselves. The development of sorting algorithm visualization should be able to observe the sorting of data and conditions of 
student concerned.
